---
title: ''
date: 2023-08-21
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

9th Feb ‘22, 10:04 AM: Exactly when I received the selection mail from MITACS for a summer internship at the University of British Columbia, Vancouver and oh how I jumped out of my chair! Hello, I am Saumya and I have almost (xD) graduated from IIT Bombay with an Integrated Dual Degree (BS + MSc) in Chemistry. Writing this piece is surely going to be a rollercoaster trip down memory lane for me. It all began when things started to come to their normal pace after 2 years of COVID ‘19. So, after those terrible years of retracted offers, a new hope towards foreign opportunities came in and I was one of those who chose to try their luck. Here, I pen down my experiences and learnings starting right from the application phase to submitting my final report of the project and bidding adieu to Canada and I really hope this is helpful to many aspiring for a similar experience.

In Sep ‘21, MITACS had the deadline for their Globalink Internships. For those who are new to this, it is a fully-funded 3-month research internship in some of the top universities in Canada. They list down projects on their website (~3000 projects at my time) offered by different professors and during the application stage, the applicants are supposed to fill in 7 preferences. It covers a wide variety of topics and is not just limited to primary and natural sciences. After the application deadline, the ‘Matching Phase’ begins where professors either directly select applicants or call them for an interview as the final phase. It is definitely a competitive program owing to the minimal success percentage, but this is where I’d like to quote my biggest learning: ‘Be conscious, you never know when a life-changing opportunity might knock your doors!’ Don’t be afraid of the consequences and give it a shot because, as the famous saying goes, “You lose 100% of the chances you don’t take.” I got to know about this program from one of my juniors who sent me his SoP to review and who would ever think that this small click will be my chance. I knew about MITACS, but I never gave it a thought, and I probably misunderstood that I was not eligible because I had converted to Dual-degree. I was unclear about the rules, but while checking his answers, I browsed the eligibility page and found out I was eligible. More than that, this happened just a day before the deadline so yes, I arranged for all the documents and wrote my SoP in a day for MITACS and had little to no hope. But I was satisfied because I did my part and left the rest to destiny (ofcourse xD). There were people who told me that it’s really competitive when I was applying but back to what I said earlier, I’d have lost a 100% chance if I wouldn’t have applied. Alright, the application is completed, and I was put on the waitlist!   

Oct, Nov, Dec, Jan,…. and I had forgotten about it and started apping by sending direct emails to professors. I had bagged few more internships during that time, but all of them were remote and unpaid internships. Feb came, and I received an email titled ‘2022 Globalink Research Internship offer’ asking me to accept or decline the project offer! I never even dreamed of this, but yes, there it was!!! I remember reading the mail thrice to confirm my acceptance. The cherry on top was the project I was selected for. It was my first preference in one of Canada’s top-ranked universities, The University of British Columbia!! I was beyond thrilleddd! Feb end, I received the final offer letter, and I started preparing for my first international internship (and trip). 


Here begins the third phase of my blog, the preparations and challenges. I had no experience at all in international travel, and I was almost on my own, arranging for each and everything. I made a bunch of mistakes too, but as of today, I embrace my mistakes more than the things I did perfectly. Doing things right gave me experience and confidence, but mistakes provided me with learnings! The checklist can be summarised with these four major things: VISA, Flight tickets, accommodation and packing. Due to excitement, I forgot to confirm the process and booked my flight tickets way in advance in March first week itself. I applied for VISA next week after collecting all the documents mentioned. Canadian Visitor VISA usually has a huge waitlist, and it was more than 90 days at that time. I was definitely out of time considering that. To add on, I had another major issue owing to my name discrepancy in my passport and flight tickets. To further add, I had another problem with my return connecting flight in Japan. I had an inter-airport transfer within Tokyo, and Japan was not even providing Transit visas to Indians at that time (COVID times yes). I booked the tickets through a third-party website and statistically, their customer service never responded. VISA was secondary for me then as these issues wouldn’t let me sleep, considering I had already paid 74k INR. The months of March and April were extremely stressful, but I kept on trying to find solutions. My tickets were from Japan Airlines, and they were not reachable on their outsource contact numbers. I contacted the Japanese Embassy for help back then, and they gave me their sales team contacts, who kept asking me to contact the third-party website. They never responded; however, after multiple requests, the Airlines considered my request and assured me the boarding passes and the rerouting of the return flight. Also, this was probably the most hectic semester I had and the activities ended on the 6th of May while I was supposed to leave on the 9th. I left for Delhi on the 6th and had two days for packing where I had a basic checklist ready and we could finish it in time. They were majorly clothes, some ready-to-eats (not utensils), personal care and documents.


Headings are cool
======

You can have many headings
======

Aren't headings cool?
------